Project Name & Description
“out-of-date”

For the Group 3 comic assignment, we named our project “out-of-date” as this project focuses on creating a web based comic that talks about a piece of outdated technology’s entire journey, specifically focusing on a gaming console’s perspective, in which in this project we focused mainly on the perspective of a PS4. As the new Playstation 5 has just recently came out and it has been blowing up on the internet, our group thought it would be interesting to see from the perspective of the “outdated” Playstation 4 that has been replaced by this newer Playstation 5. We wanted to create a comic that causes the readers to feel empathy for not just the Playstation 4 but also for other outdated technologies that have been forgotten and casted aside from modern society. However, at the same time, we wanted to portray a deeper message within our comic, which is to also allow the readers to be aware of the rising electronics waste issue that is slowly becoming worse as we constantly build and invent newer technologies. Being the cost of innovation.

Process 
First, we thought about the different parts that we needed in order to make this work and we later assigned different parts and tasks to each member. At first, we basically assigned three members to be in charge of the graphic design aspect and one person in charge of the coding of the website. However, it ended up being just all of us doing a bit of everything and constantly trying to help out each other with whatever they were struggling with. 
After figuring out the different assignments and tasks that we needed to complete, we first started out sketching ideas for the main characters of the comic, which were the PS4 and PS through Adobe Illustrator. As for the website, we first figured out the basic layout such as where the comic will be presented and where the navigation bar should be. After this, we moved on to creating and drawing the different background designs and as well as the rest of the scenes. However, during this process, we had to keep in mind that we had to separate different objects on the file into different layers in order to make it easier to incorporate different interactivity for each scene on the website. 
After we were all done with the graphic design for every scene for all six panels, we proceeded to think about the various possible interactions that we could incorporate into the website. Through different discussions with all the team members, we decided to insert different sound effects for each scene which can enhance the reader’s experience when reading the comic. 
Lastly, after including the different sounds of each scene, we also incorporated various interactivity in specific scenes. This included making the different background objects (i.e. stars, christmas lights, etc.) blink in time intervals. 
After figuring out everything, we just coded and referenced all of the drawings of each scene and placed them into the respective panels. 
Reflection/Evaluation
Initially, we wanted to include a lot more scenes within our panels as we wanted to make sure that we created a clear flow of what was going on in the entire sequence. We originally had more scenes in our original script where we wanted to draw the entire body of the boy returning home and running up the stairs and into his room and the whole sequence of when he first sees his new PS5. However, due to time constraint and also constraint in our own abilities, we decided later on that we would omit some of these scenes that would still be enough for the readers to fill in the blanks as to what was going on even if it was not explicitly drawn out. Also, as we had too much to worry about, we decided later on to not draw out the entire body of the boy and the sequence of him returning home and to just show the boy’s legs running up the stairs and just only his hands and the Playstation 5 in frame as we believe this is enough information for the audience to understand what was going on in those scenes. 

On the other hand for the website, we originally wanted to make a website where the readers could read the comic by scrolling down through the website.However, after various discussions of our ideas and designs, we decided later on to not stick with the scrolling website but instead to go with the type of design where there is a next and previous button for the readers to not only better control their pace of reading, but this would also be much easier for us to incorporate different interactivity and sound effects. One of the main concerns that we thought of was if we used a scrolling type of web based comic, it would be fairly hard to figure out the playing of different sound effects for specific scenes. Therefore, our solution to this was to just make each panel of our comic a separate div so when the reader clicks either the next or previous button, the sound effects for different scenes within that panel will be properly loaded. Furthermore, in regards to the sound effects, we originally wanted to just play different sound effects whenever the new page for each panel loads. However, we realized this was a problem as this means whenever the page loads, all the different sound effects meant for a specific scene within that panel will all play at the same time, causing this overlay of multiple sound effects. Therefore, we came up with a solution where we would prompt the readers to click on all of the different scenes in each panel to figure out the different sound effects that are encoded into them. This way we would involve the readers/users into our comic so that they could feel that they are part of the experience.
